at s SPT we have four different types of
Olympic weightlifting bars I'm going to
discuss right now the differences
between the Olympic bars and the power
cores the general specifications are
strikingly similar the overall bar
length again is going to be just over
seven feet long the diameter of most
Olympic bar bells is 28 millimeters in
diameter 28 millimeters thick it's going
to be a little bit thinner all these are
three of the four weight 20 kilos 44
pounds you'll notice there come a nice
chrome finish metal that they make the
Olympic weightlifting bars of slightly
different let's treat it differently the
bars flex a little bit Whittier and they
spin a little bit faster which I'm going
to show you close-ups of that in the
second portion of this video you want
with Olympic weightlifting bars
throughout the bars to oscillate you
want them to spin faster my nature in
the overhead lifts you need the bar to
spin to rotate with Markham's overhead
and that's why you want faster more
power bars now can afford you that you
also notice that it was most olympic
weightlifting bars the knurling is not
as deep and early is not as of course
senator Lee is much more narrow because
again Olympic weightlifters when placing
the bar on their back etc but now what
I'm going to do is go ahead and give you
a very close-up bird's-eye view of
different Olympic
yeah
okay we're taking a close-up look here
at our weightlifting bars we've got four
different bars that we're going to go
through you'll notice that each one of
these bars has a chrome finish which is
kind of nice the first bar that we're
going to talk about is made by a company
called DHS and that's this bar right
here this is the DHS men's Olympic
weightlifting training bar it's 20 kilos
44 pounds one of the things that's
different about the weightlifting bars
and a power bar a couple of differences
in addition to the Flex nature or the
whip eNOS of the bar that we discussed
the distance here between the Rings on
these bars is 36 inches as opposed to 32
when you're doing the snatch and the
overhead lifts as well specifically the
snatch your grip is going to be wider so
the Rings on these bars is wider than
you're going to find on the power bars
in addition the bearings that are
located here allow these bars to spin a
lot faster okay you'll notice each one
of these bars spins very very quickly
you're not going to find that on a
typical power bar that we discussed in
our other video for the overhead lifts
you need a bar that spins you need a
fast bar to do the overhead lift
properly and so that's what these are
going to afford you this the second bar
here then you have is this one right
here this is the Alico okay again
top-of-the-line
swedish bar 28 millimeters in diameter
again 20 kilos very very fast
spins well this bar the third bar in the
line is made by works on works on again
another popular company with regards to
Olympic weightlifting equipment and
plates another fast bar 20 kilos 28
millimeters this bar retails for about
eight hundred and eighty dollars
with the worx on here as well as the
Alico are IWF international
weightlifting Federation certified bars
you'll find these on platforms in the
Olympics and around the world in
different competitions lastly this
thinner bar here is made by York it's a
women's bar it's 15 kilos or 33 pounds
retails for about $700 it's a lot
thinner it's actually 25 millimeters
thick so there you have it you've got
the four different Olympic barbells
entirely appropriate for the Olympic
lifts faster spin chrome finish again
just over 7 feet long 36 inches between
the Rings and good quality bars again
don't want to skimp if you're going to
get serious about Olympic weightlifting
and doing the Olympic lifts you need to
get an Olympic bar